# ENV_872_Project

<General notes: add as much information as is relevant for your repository. Some overarching guidelines are provided, but feel free to expand on these guidelines.>
<More resources found here: https://www.dataone.org/all-best-practices>
<Delete the text inside the brackets when formatting your file.>

## Summary

This repository was prepared to hold raw and processed data, visualizations, code, and other output for Duke University's Environmental Data Analytics (ENV 872) Spring 2020 final project.

<describe the purpose of this repository, the information it contains, and any relevant analysis goals. What, why, where, when, how?>

## Investigators

This repository was created and assembled by Claire Mullaney, a Duke University Master of Environmental Management student (claire.mullaney@duke.edu).

<name(s), affiliation(s), contact information, roles (if applicable)>

## Keywords

Coral reefs, 
<add relevant keywords here>

## Database Information
Data were originally collected by the ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies at James Cook University and were hosted at the eAtlas data repository (http://eatlas.org.au/pydio/data/public/833ece.php). They were accessed via the Australian Government's database at: https://data.gov.au/data/dataset/031f0668-b874-48fc-a058-f146c2f6fc69

More information on this database can be found here: https://search.data.gov.au/page/about

More information on eAtlas can be found here: https://eatlas.org.au/content/about-e-atlas

These csv files were saved as `eAtlas_fish_benthos_GBR_sites_raw.csv` and `eAtlas_fish_benthos_GBR_zones_raw.csv`.

Data were accessed 2020-04-10.

<describe the origin of all data in the repository, including data collected from outside sources and new data generated by the investigator(s). If data was accessed from an outside database, the date(s) of data access should also be included.>

## Folder structure, file formats, and naming conventions 

Folders contained in the repository include:

**Code**: R scripts created to analyze data (.r)
**Data/Raw**: Data files in their orginal formatting (.csv) 
**Data/Processed**: Revised data files created from raw data files during analysis (.csv)
**Output**: R Markdown files (.rmd) and PDFs (.pdf) used to discuss and visualize data and analyses

Files in the data folder are named according to the following convention: `database_description_details_stage.format`.

**database** is the database from which the data were obtained

**description** is a description of data 

**details** are additional details necessary to understand the content of the dataset

**stage** indicates the point where the file is located in the data science pipeline (in these files, stage will either be "raw" or "processed")

**format** is the file's format (e.g., .csv)

<describe the folders contained in the repository, including what type of files they contain>

<describe the formats of files for the various purposes contained in the repository>

<describe your file naming conventions>

## Metadata

<For each data file in the repository, describe the data contained in each column. Include the column name, a description of the information, the class of data, and any units associated with the data. Create a list or table for each data file.> 

The class of data?

Both `eAtlas_fish_benthos_GBR_sites_raw.csv` and `eAtlas_fish_benthos_GBR_zones_raw.csv` contain the following columns: 

- SE - Standard Error
- mean - Mean over the transects at a site.

Dataset Column | Description | Class
---------------| ----------- | -----
**Year** | Year of data collection |
**Region** | The island group (Palm, Magnetic, Whitsunday or Keppel) of the coral reef that was surveyed |
**Zone** | Indicates if data were collected in a no-take zone established in 1987 (NTR 1987), a no-take zone established in 2004 (NTR 2004), or a zone where fishing is allowed (Fished) |
**Total Fish Densit_mean** | Mean number of fish observed per 1000 m^2^ at the specified site |
**Total Fish Densit_SE** | The standard error of the mean number of fish observed per 1000 m^2^ at the specified site |
**Fish Species richness_mean** | The mean number of fish species observed at the specified site |
**Fish Species richness_SE** | The standard error of the mean number of fish species observed at the specified site |
**Fishery Target Spp_mean** |  Mean number of fish species designated as 'Primary target’ in the `eAtlas_fish_groups_status.csv` metadata file |
**Fishery Target Spp_SE** | The standard error of the mean number of fish species designated as 'Primary target’ in the `eAtlas_fish_groups_status.csv` metadata file |
**Grazers_mean** | Mean number of fish species listed as ‘grazers’ in the `eAtlas_fish_groups_status.csv` metadata file |
**Grazers_SE**|
**Corallivores_mean** |
**Coraliivores_SE** |
**Planktivores_mean** |
**Planktivores_SE** |
**Territorial Pomacentrids_mean** |
**Territorial Pomacentrids_SE** |
**Plectropomus spp_mean** |
**Plectropomus spp_SE** |
**SCI_mean** | Structural complexity Index.. An index (1-25) calculated by multiplying our visual estimates of reef slope angle (1-5) by reef slope rugosity (Complexity 1-5). These values are estimated for each 10m section of each 50m transect. 5 transects per site = 25 SCI estimates per site. The e-atlas data we have provided is site means… i.e.. the mean of those 25 values.
**LCC** | Live coral cover (percent cover), live hard and soft coral pooled.
**LHC** | Live hard coral cover (%), live hard coral only.
**MAC** | Macro Algae Cover % (fleshy algas only, does not include turf algae)
**Fish Line_SUM** | is the pooled number of lines recorded on the 5 transects surveyed at each site. = total number of lines/1500m2.
**Line Accumulation Rate** | number of lines accumulated per month.

**Site**: The ID of the site (where five transect surveys were conducted) within the specified zone, region, and year.

**No. Transect**: The number of transects deployed in the specified zone, region, and year.

## Scripts and code

<list any software scripts/code contained in the repository and a description of their purpose.>

## Quality assurance/quality control

<describe any relevant QA/QC procedures taken with your data. Some ideas can be found here:>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/develop-quality-assurance-and-quality-control-plan>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/ensure-basic-quality-control>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/communicate-data-quality>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/identify-outliers>
<https://www.dataone.org/best-practices/identify-values-are-estimated>
